so you're looking to get a big clean
Reverb from your Sound Source or vocals
the issue comes up when you add a big
Reverb to something is that sometimes it
can lose Clarity the depth even the
punch of the Sound Source can be lost
well right now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to show you a technique not
even using pre- delay or Reverb times to
kind of give you that big Reverb sound
without losing that Clarity that depth
and that punch that you still desire in
the original Sound Source check this
out so right now what we're going to do
is we're going to listen to this
original vocal and with this vocal there
is a lot of Reverb on it I did this on
purpose for the exaggeration of this
video listen closely to this vocal with
a lot of Reverb on
it it's like 6
in me late record I respect it I know
the rules I know it's important I know
the music on first but sometimes I wish
you as human so as you listen to that
vocal it's a lot of Reverb it even feels
like some of the res resonance is uh
building up with the entire sound
because sometimes when those big moments
happen or the vocal gets louder the
Reverb also gets louder and it kind of
piles on top of each other muddying up
everything in The Sound Source for the
most part now what we're going to do
right now is I'm going to show you a
technique and you may have heard of it
I'm going to side chain the Reverb or
duck the Reverb basically what's going
to happen is every time that the vocal
is heard by the Reverb it's going to be
compressed
and when there is no sound or no audio
that Reverb is going to come up causing
the sound to bloom and open up and fill
in the spaces in your mix and also make
it also feel like there's more depth I'm
going to show you how I set this whole
thing up but let's just take a listen to
it for the most part and then I'll break
down exactly how I achieve this sound
and how you can do it in your door as
well let's do it okay so right now what
I want you to do is I want you to listen
to this sound with with this big Reverb
on and I want you to pay very close
attention to the spaces meaning the
parts where there is no audio I want you
to feel how this Reverb feels when there
is no audio there and it blooms check
this out oh my gosh are you like
watching my video did you know you can
comment like And subscribe okay don't
skip okay don't skip okay back to your
video I'm
sorry it's like 6 in the morning you
told me you running late you still the
recording I respect it I know the rules
I know it's important
I know the music
first wish
human so what you're hearing is when the
vocal is actually playing it's being
compressed the Reverb just the Reverb is
being compressed and when there's no
audio it allows or the reeverb basically
comes back up it's uncompressed thus
filling in the space and really giving
you the sense of depth making the
reeverb feel a little bit more back like
I kind of wanted to feel without
disrupting that clarity it's compressing
the Reverb thus allowing the original
signal to have more Fidelity more
clarity more punch and shine and then
letting the Reverb Tastefully just add
to the space I love this technique I'm
going to show you exactly how I set this
up and then kind of let you hear it in
deeper uh right now check this out so
now what I'm going to do is I'm going to
bypass this back and forth as far as
this compressor and then I'm going to
show you how I set up the technique
let's have it bypass first and what I
want you to do is pay attention to the
vocal I want you to pay attention to the
clarity of the initial vocal sound when
it's
bypassed or when it's un bypassed sorry
about that listen
close it's like 6 in the morning you
told me you running late you still there
recording I respect it I know the rules
I know it's important I know the music
on first but sometimes I wish you as
human now it's 8 in the morning you see
me trying on suits and so when it's on
or when it's not bypassed and when it's
engaged you can hear that initial sound
of the vocal feels a little bit less
unbothered you still feel the Reverb but
it feels a little bit more subtle and it
feels like the clarity of the actual
initial vocal sound is cutting through
if I play this along with music you'll
really really feel that difference well
you'll notice that vocal just shines and
it feels unbothered by the Reverb but
it's still there in the play of it I
didn't uh change any pre- delay times or
rebirth times to achieve this I
literally just used Side chaining in
order to duct the reverb when the vocal
was there so that when it's not there it
fills in the holes and I'm getting that
effect of the Reverb let me show you
exactly how I set it up so what I did
was this I went to my vocal right and I
created a send basically this send is
what I'm saying hey vocal I want you to
send a copy of yourself out somewhere so
I happened to go to bus five as you can
see and I turned it up to zero so now a
copy of my vocal is being sent out to
bus five now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go on over to my Reverb track
or ax and what I'm going to do is I'm
going to open up a compressor and on
this compressor I'm then going to go for
Pro Tools I'm going to go to the side
chain or key input and I'm going to say
hey I want you to listen to input or bus
five uh when it comes to your
compression
so now it's listening to bus five so now
my vocal is getting to this compressor
so now every time it hears my vocal it's
going to apply compression to this
particular chain here where the Reverb
is and duck it like so look at it it's
like 6 in the morning you told me you
running late you still there recording I
respect it I know the rules it's it's a
very subtle effect but it's so effective
when it's in your mix and things like of
that nature please make sure you listen
on headphones and monitor so you can
really really hear this thing and feel
it if you're hearing it on a phone
amazing so what are my settings for my
compressor long story short I'm getting
about 6 DB of gain reduction realize I'm
not too concerned or worried about oh my
gosh I have so much compression use your
ears feel it out see what feels right
and then go from there I use 6db cuz in
the back of mine I said okay if we duck
the Reverb 6db that should be enough to
kind of get out of the way of that vocal
so that when it comes back in I got a
nice big Reverb that goes up 6db um when
there's nothing there so it feels like
this big Reverb but as soon as it hears
a vocal it just takes it right back down
and moves it out the way that's why I
like doing it so much and that's why I
feel like it works for me I'm not saying
this is the only way to do it but I like
it I love the sound of it and maybe you
could use it as well let's take a look
at my attack and release settings right
now I have it at about a fast to medium
attack and about a slow to medium
release I still want it to grab though I
I guess the initial transient
information of the Reverb I wanted to
grab it pretty fast but not too much
where it just kind of feels smooshed and
just completely taking the front of it
out but I also want it to feel a little
bit smooth and I can accomplish it
feeling Smoother by taking the release
also and making it slower so that it
makes the Reverb a little bit more Lush
there's a lot of different ways to do it
use your ears try it out for yourself
and find the settings that work for you
so just to add to this another cool
thing and a way for you to get creative
with this is say for instance that hey I
like what I'm doing as far as the Reverb
ducking what if when the Reverb gets
duct or when there's no information
coming to this actual Reverb meaning the
spaces I want it to boost that up 4 DB
so basically what's going to happen is
every time that there's no sound or
there's no signal coming into the side
chain it's going to basically have a 4
DB boost of the Reverb in general so
you're adding about 4 DB of gain to the
entire Reverb in totality but now when
the when there's no signal and there's
space you're going to hear a big big
significant jump in the Reverb which can
be a cool creative effect I'm not saying
this is the greatest way to do it but it
also is a way just to open your mind up
to what you possibly could do with this
so let's listen to this with a 4db boost
at the makeup gain side of this check
this
out it's like 6:00 in the morning you
told me you running late you still the
recording I respect it I know the rules
I know it's important I know the music
on
first so do you notice that when their
space or when the vocal uh has no signal
and there's a gap you feel that Reverb
just swell and Bloom and this can be a
super creative way to do a lot of
different things I'm just trying to open
your mind up to how you can use the side
chaining in Reverb to really give you
some really really cool effects in your
mixes vocals or whatever the Sound
Source uh that it is uh this is a really
great technique it's it's great for
helping you achieve more clarity
Fidelity in a vocal sound or any Sound
Source in my opinion um when you do want
a Reverb but at the same time you want
to maintain that sound you want it to be
heard and you want it to be more felt so
I hope that that was helpful please make
sure you comment like And subscribe also
make sure that you follow us at helpme
Deon and you can become a paid member of
this channel by hitting the little join
button down below uh it it's awesome you
get a bunch of money in our store every
month you also get exclusive access to
content episodes from the my audio nerds
podcast which drops every single
Wednesday and a bunch of other things we
really appreciate the support uh I hope
that you guys like that please let me
know in the comments below what else you
would like to see um and uh till next
time you guys